# AmazonSES Sendmail


### About:

Non-blocking (async) email library to use with Amazon SES. Uses Bottle (bottlepy.org) for HTTP API and Gevent for lightweight concurrency.

With Gevent green-threads we don't waste our time waiting for a reply from Amazon SES API before send the next message. Each worker runs on it own pseudo-thread, without locks. All messages received by this library will be included on a Queue, while all workers catch each message and send it independently.

This library has been used in production to send more than half million messages per day. If you have a high send rate limit on your Amazon SES account, you can easily send thousands of emails per minute with this library.


### Requirements:

* gevent
* cjson (optional but recommended)
* bottle (included in lib/)
* amazon_ses (included in lib/)



### Usage:

1. Insert your AmazonSES access key in config.py
2. Start the server:  python start.py
3. Access the /add url in your browser: http://localhost:3000/add/?from=your@email.com&to=another@email.com&subject=subject&text=message+text



### Config:

The file config.py has (at this time) few options to configure:

* DEBUG: turn on bottle DEBUG;
* AMAZON_KEY and AMAZON_SECRET: your Amazon id and secret;
* HOST and PORT: default host and port to listen;
* WORKERS: number of workers to run in parallel;
* OUTBOX_MAXSIZE: the size of outbox queue;

Read the comments on config.py for more details.


### Details:

* Both POST and GET methods are allowed for include messages in queue.
* You can view the status of queue accessing the url /status.
* All logs are written on file logs/worker.log.
* You can send HTML emails just passing the "html" field to /add url.
* You can define specific headers, but some are blocked by AmazonSES.



### Python client example:

    import urllib, urllib2, json

    URL = 'http://localhost:3000/add'

    # message data
    data = {
        'from': 'some@email.com',
        'to:' 'another@email.com',
        'subject': 'Hello dude',
        'text': 'AmazonSES test.',
        'html': '<b>AmazonSES</b> test.',
    }

    # if you need specific headers:
    headers = {'return-path': 'thatsme@email.com',}
    data['headers'] = json.dumps(headers)

    # encode the POST data
    encoded_data = urllib.urlencode(data)

    # make the request
    request = urllib2.Request(URL, encoded_data)
    response = urllib2.urlopen(request).read()

    # unserialize the json response
    response_data = json.loads(response)

    # print response
    print response_data['status']
    print response_data['message']


### Know issues:

* AmazonSES has some sending limits: the sending quota and maximum send rate (see http://aws.amazon.com/ses/#details). At this moment this library doesn't care about it, presumes that you have large limits and a good reputation :)



### Todo:

* Treat AmazonException's generated by sending limits. Maybe re-add messages in queue and automaticaly decrease the sending rate.
* Maybe create some persistence for messages when outbox is full.
* Correct my english mistakes in this README and in project comments :)



### Author:

* r@linux.com


### License:

* MIT (see LICENSE for details)

